README.md, before:

# denolint

> Monorepo for calling `deno lint` in Node.js projects using the Rust package [deno_lint].

A lot faster than [eslint], handling both JavaScript and TypeScript sources. Use [rollup-plugin-denolint] for [Rollup]. Use [esbuild-plugin-denolint] for [esbuild]. Use [webpack-loader-denolint] for [Webpack]. Or simpler, just the command-line [denolint].

This project started as fork of a [customised @node-rs/deno-lint], adding the flexibility of `eslint`:

* Scan specific directories with specific ignore patterns ([631], [647])
* Scan directories configured by `files.include` ([635], [645])
* Fix handling of the configuration `files.exclude` ([635], [646])
* Support disabling rules in souces using `eslint-disable` ([630], [642])
* Support including and excluding rules in the `lint` method ([631], [643])
* Execute the command-line tool `denolint` without loading the Node.js VM ([648])
* Offer both synchronous and asynchronous methods ([650])
* Allow specifying directories, files and patterns as input for checking
* Print warning messages in pretty or compact formats
* Explain a rule or list all supported rules on the console

## Synopsis

Scan sources in two directories on the command line:

    $ npx denolint src test

    no-var

    × `var` keyword is not allowed.
    ╭─[src/index.js:3:3]
    3 │ export function answer() {
    4 │   var answer = 42
    ·   ───────────────
    5 │   return answer
    ╰────
    help: https://lint.deno.land/#no-var

Check one source file programmatically:

```js
import { readFile } from 'fs/promises'
import { lint } from 'libdenolint'

const filepath = 'src/index.js'
const source = await readFile(filepath)

const warnings = await lint(filepath, source)
for (const warning of warnings) console.warn(warning)
```

## Packages

See more information about the packages and their compatibility with [@node-rs/deno-lint]:

| Project       | Package                                                         | Description                                   |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [denolint]    | [![denolint](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/denolint)][cmd]       | Deno lint command-line executable for Node.js |
| [libdenolint] | [![libdenolint](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/libdenolint)][lib] | Deno lint library binding for Node.js         |

## Support matrix

| Platform         | node14 | node16 | node18 |
| ---------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Windows x64      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Windows x32      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Windows arm64    | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| MacOS x64        | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| MacOS arm64      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux x64 gnu    | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux x64 musl   | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux arm gnu    | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux arm64 gnu  | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux arm64 musl | ×      | ×      | ×      |
| Android arm64    | ×      | ×      | ×      |
| Android armv7    | ×      | ×      | ×      |
| FreeBSD x64      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |

## Contributing

In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code.

## License

Copyright (c) 2020-2022 LongYinan<br>
Copyright (c) 2022 Ferdinand Prantl

Licensed under the [MIT] license.

[deno_lint]: https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint
[customised @node-rs/deno-lint]: https://github.com/prantlf/node-rs/commits/combined
[@node-rs/deno-lint]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/tree/main/packages/deno-lint#readme
[denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/denolint/tree/master/packages/denolint#readme
[cmd]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/denolint
[libdenolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/denolint/tree/master/packages/libdenolint#readme
[lib]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/libdenolint
[eslint]: https://eslint.org/
[esbuild-plugin-denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/esbuild-plugin-denolint#readme
[esbuild]: https://esbuild.github.io/
[rollup-plugin-denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/rollup-plugin-denolint#readme
[Rollup]: https://rollupjs.org/
[webpack-loader-denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/webpack-loader-denolint#readme
[Webpack]: https://webpack.js.org/
[630]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/630
[631]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/631
[635]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/635
[642]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/642
[643]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/643
[645]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/645
[646]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/646
[647]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/647
[648]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/648
[650]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/650
[MIT]: https://github.com/prantlf/denolint/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

docs: Add publishing instructions for me :-)

README.md, after:

# denolint

> Monorepo for calling `deno lint` in Node.js projects using the Rust package [deno_lint].

A lot faster than [eslint], handling both JavaScript and TypeScript sources. Use [rollup-plugin-denolint] for [Rollup]. Use [esbuild-plugin-denolint] for [esbuild]. Use [webpack-loader-denolint] for [Webpack]. Or simpler, just the command-line [denolint].

This project started as fork of a [customised @node-rs/deno-lint], adding the flexibility of `eslint`:

* Scan specific directories with specific ignore patterns ([631], [647])
* Scan directories configured by `files.include` ([635], [645])
* Fix handling of the configuration `files.exclude` ([635], [646])
* Support disabling rules in souces using `eslint-disable` ([630], [642])
* Support including and excluding rules in the `lint` method ([631], [643])
* Execute the command-line tool `denolint` without loading the Node.js VM ([648])
* Offer both synchronous and asynchronous methods ([650])
* Allow specifying directories, files and patterns as input for checking
* Print warning messages in pretty or compact formats
* Explain a rule or list all supported rules on the console

## Synopsis

Scan sources in two directories on the command line:

    $ npx denolint src test

    no-var

    × `var` keyword is not allowed.
    ╭─[src/index.js:3:3]
    3 │ export function answer() {
    4 │   var answer = 42
    ·   ───────────────
    5 │   return answer
    ╰────
    help: https://lint.deno.land/#no-var

Check one source file programmatically:

```js
import { readFile } from 'fs/promises'
import { lint } from 'libdenolint'

const filepath = 'src/index.js'
const source = await readFile(filepath)

const warnings = await lint(filepath, source)
for (const warning of warnings) console.warn(warning)
```

## Packages

See more information about the packages and their compatibility with [@node-rs/deno-lint]:

| Project       | Package                                                         | Description                                   |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [denolint]    | [![denolint](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/denolint)][cmd]       | Deno lint command-line executable for Node.js |
| [libdenolint] | [![libdenolint](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/libdenolint)][lib] | Deno lint library binding for Node.js         |

## Support matrix

| Platform         | node14 | node16 | node18 |
| ---------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Windows x64      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Windows x32      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Windows arm64    | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| MacOS x64        | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| MacOS arm64      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux x64 gnu    | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux x64 musl   | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux arm gnu    | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux arm64 gnu  | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |
| Linux arm64 musl | ×      | ×      | ×      |
| Android arm64    | ×      | ×      | ×      |
| Android armv7    | ×      | ×      | ×      |
| FreeBSD x64      | ✓      | ✓      | ✓      |

## Contributing

In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code.

### Publishing

This is for me :-)

Change directory to `packages/denolint` and/or `packages/libdenolint` depending on what packages you want to publish and run:

    npm version --no-git-tag-version X.Y.Z

Consolidate `CHANGELOG.md` and commit the changes with one of the following messages, depending on what packages you want to publish:

    g c -am 'chore(release): publish both X.Y.Z'
    g c -am 'chore(release): publish denolint X.Y.Z'
    g c -am 'chore(release): publish libdenolint X.Y.Z'

## License

Copyright (c) 2020-2022 LongYinan<br>
Copyright (c) 2022 Ferdinand Prantl

Licensed under the [MIT] license.

[deno_lint]: https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint
[customised @node-rs/deno-lint]: https://github.com/prantlf/node-rs/commits/combined
[@node-rs/deno-lint]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/tree/main/packages/deno-lint#readme
[denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/denolint/tree/master/packages/denolint#readme
[cmd]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/denolint
[libdenolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/denolint/tree/master/packages/libdenolint#readme
[lib]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/libdenolint
[eslint]: https://eslint.org/
[esbuild-plugin-denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/esbuild-plugin-denolint#readme
[esbuild]: https://esbuild.github.io/
[rollup-plugin-denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/rollup-plugin-denolint#readme
[Rollup]: https://rollupjs.org/
[webpack-loader-denolint]: https://github.com/prantlf/webpack-loader-denolint#readme
[Webpack]: https://webpack.js.org/
[630]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/630
[631]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/631
[635]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/635
[642]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/642
[643]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/643
[645]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/645
[646]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/646
[647]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/pull/647
[648]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/648
[650]: https://github.com/napi-rs/node-rs/issues/650
[MIT]: https://github.com/prantlf/denolint/blob/master/LICENSE
